I believe we've already mentioned a little bit
about the athletes having the privilege of the
training table. Were there any other assets to
being an athlete? Well, I can't say, Charles, that
I didn't letter to A&M. I lettered on the freshman
team, but we played with the varsity in baseball
and basketball, and we didn't get a letter as such.
And I was a pitcher, and I never did get a letter on
the varsity. But I stayed on the squad a great deal
of the time. I don't think I can be classified as an
athlete. I tried. But since you were on the squad,
you were eligible for the training table for the
whole time. That's right. But you still had to do
all your drills and wear your uniform and
regulation. I presume that if there was a drill
scheduled while you were supposed to be
practicing, you would be excused from the drill.
That's right. In checking through the yearbook
during your senior year,
I had an indication there that you were president
of something called the NTAC Club. That's the
North Texas
Cultural College. That was Grubbs, that's the old
Grubbs Vocational College that I entered in 1916
to get in the uniform. My family sent me up there so I
wouldn't go into the army. I had a brother in
service and they didn't want two of us in service
and I was settled to go at 16 anyway. But that's what
that was, North Texas Agricultural College. And
it's now University of Texas in Arlington, as you
well know. So this would be an organization of all
the boys who had been through that particular
school prior to coming to A&M. That is correct.
Okay.
You were also on the staff of the Fish Battalion in
1920. I know there was a time period of years where
they had a magazine for each class and some special
events. Was this that particular issue? That was
that particular issue. We had the opportunity,
the freshman class had the privilege of
publishing the battalion one time. And that's
when I was on the editorial staff. In fact, I still
have that battalion. It's quite something. We
have most of those that were in magazine format.
Yes, that's what that was. I think you were also a
member of an organization called
One-Buttoneers.
I was, and that was the brave second lieutenants.
And we, I don't know whether it's through sheer
embarrassment by being a second lieutenant or
just because we wanted to have some fun, so we
organized. And we had several dances, the one
known as the One-Button Ears. And we just had a
great time as second lieutenants on the campus.
And I don't know whether all the boys belonged to
the One-Button Ears or not, but anyway, it was a fun
thing. So that was kind of a social organization.
It was, and as I mentioned, we had some dances. So
this would be a contribution to the social life of
the campus. That's right. And were the dances just
for the members of the club or not open to the rest of
them? That's right. And you were also in the RVs.
Was that for one year or for two?
I was in the RVs two years, two years, because I
couldn't have been voted in my first year because I
was a freshman. And I was in the RVs my junior and
senior year. You said you were voted in. Yes. Was
that still where somebody recommended you?
That's right. And everybody voted? I understand
it was a no blackball thing. If you were one
blackball, you didn't get in. It was a military and
social organization. Uh-huh. Did that require a
fair amount more drill practice? We did drill
quite a bit, and we thoroughly enjoyed it. We had
the white uniforms they have today, quite a bit of
gold braid. I'm sure you've seen those pictures.
Did you participate in any special drills or
special exhibitions? No, we didn't, except on the
campus.
didn't go off campus as the way the RVs do today. No,
not, I believe they go to New Orleans. They go to New
Orleans, I think they were at the opening of the
Constitutional Convention. That's right, and
they also are at the governor's inauguration.
That's right, we didn't do that. Okay, and when you
graduated in the spring of 24, did you have a job
lined up Before graduation, or did you have to hunt
one? No, in 1924, during that period, for three or
four or five years, there were many
opportunities. Our economic conditions were
good, and I think most anyone who graduated from
college or university could get jobs. And I had two
or three or four job offers. And I did go with
Ralston Purina, which I haven't regretted. and
was with Ralston Purina 42 years and thoroughly
enjoyed it and I had a fair degree of success.
I believe you began as a salesman in St. Louis.
That's right. That's where we trained and I came to
Texas to do some extra training. and was given a
territory or a district in the Rio Grande Valley of
Texas, which was at that time just beginning, just
developing. Now, as a salesman for Ross and
Purina, you didn't sell to individuals, did you?
You would sell to distributors? Well, we sold to
distributors, but we also called on ranchers and
large feeders. That was part of our training
program, and the salesmen still do that. So
actually you sold both to individuals and to
dealers. That's right. Distributors. That's
right. You had each salesman would have a
specified territory to cover. That's right.
That's right. And then ultimately you became what
manager? Well, I became sales manager. I was in the
Red Grande Valley 15 years as salesman. District
salesman had 27 dealers there. And came
out here, we came to Lubbock in 1940 as sales
manager for this West Texas, part of New Mexico and
part of Oklahoma area. And then in 1945, I went into
our plant, which is in Lubbock, as manager of that
plant, and stayed until I retired in 1966 as plant
manager. And this is the production of the... Of
the chows, our... the feed. Is that, how does the
plant here in Lubbock say compared to other plants
across the arena for production? We have some
plants that are larger but this is one of the very
fine plants in the United States and one of the
profitable plants on the basis of quite a volume.
It's You have a lot of livestock in the community to
consume. Yes, we do. We surely have. Commodities,
as opposed to perhaps more than, say, St. Louis,
the headquarters? It's the headquarters and the
home office. Ralston Pure Rain is about 78 years
old. It was established about 78 years ago. It's
one of the largest feed plants in the world. It is
the largest. And we're doing business all over the
world in many
other parts of the business. We're in the tuna fish
business, chicken of the sea tuna. That's the
largest. We are the largest in the tuna fish
business in the world. That's a subsidiary of
Ralston? A subsidiary of Ralston Purina. We have
several subsidiaries. We have a serial
subsidiary. And Purina Dog Chows. We have 11
plants in the United States. Any plants abroad? We
do. We have plants in Europe, and we have plants in
South America, and we have plants in Mexico. I
visited some plants in South America last summer,
in Peru, and also in Brazil. I believe you said you
were with Ralston for 42 years. Yes. So you retired
then in 1966.
And what have you been doing since then?
I'm a director in the Lubbock Savings and Loan
Association. A group of us organized that
association in 1952.
And I was a director then, and I continue to be a
director, and have a desk in one of the branches. I
guess my responsibility, Charles, would be
public relations, which I enjoy. And I thoroughly
enjoy having been associated with that
organization since 52. I really appreciate it.
And I have a feeling of responsibility. We all need
that. Now, I believe a little bit ago you indicated
that you had jotted down some notes, some things
that you wanted to sort of make sure we covered.
Well, not necessarily, Charles. I just wanted to
be sure. If you were going to run short of time, I was
just going to hand this to you, and I didn't know you
were going to tape this conversation. I didn't
know how it was going to be, but I just happened to, I
did that after I learned that you weren't going to
be here. Did you have some things on there that we
haven't covered here? Uh...
Well, I think we've covered almost everything
except what I've done, if that be of any interest,
as a citizen of Lubbock. That would be of interest,
yes. It would be of interest. Well, there's one
thing that I'm real proud of that I didn't mention.
When I was in Rio Grande Valley, I was awarded the
William Sample Award, which is an outstanding
salesmanship award, and I believe there's only
been 125 given In our period of time that William H.
Sample was sales manager of our company, national
sales manager of our company. And we had, through
the period of time, we've had about 5,000
salesmen. And I am very proud of that. And my
district in the Rio Grande Valley was considered
the finest district in Ralston Peel Rain Company.
That might sound a little egotistical. But there
are a lot of districts in the United States. There
are a lot of districts in the United States. We
cover the entire country. And that was from 1925 to
1940. And then I went into, I became sales manager.
Those
are some of the things I've done in Lubbock. Would
you like to have some of those? civic activities.
In 1953 I was elected President of the Lubbock
Chamber of Commerce and I thoroughly enjoyed
that. It was at the time when Lubbock was really
beginning to grow and I appreciated being a part of
that. And in 1956 was elected director of the
Lubbock County Water and Improvement District
which is known as Buffalo Lakes it was a million
eight hundred thousand dollar project and it was a
countywide election and I was chairman of that
chairman of the board of that the
of that district and In 1956, I resigned from the
Lubbock County Water and Improvement District to
run for a place on the City Commission, which I did,
was elected in 1956 to the City Council. Served one
term. And in 1952, we organized Lubbock Savings
and Loan Association. I had mentioned that a
minute or two ago, and we're still going. And I did
serve as chairman of the Red Cross Financial Drive
in Lubbock County and the chairman of the National
Foundation of Incentive Paralysis for Lubbock
County. That was before the Salk vaccine was
developed. And we had sent many boys and girls to
Shrine and Cripple Children's Hospital in
Scottish Rite. And I was nominated to the Honorary
State Farmer of the FFA at a state meeting in
Lubbock about four years ago, and Senator Charles
Verner, president of this bank, and I were on that
committee, and we were honored in that way. And I
was president of the West Texas Museum
Association when it was elected in October 1960.
And that has gotten to be one of the real fine
museums in the country. And that is where? In
Lubbock. In Lubbock. Yeah. It's on the Tech
campus.
Now, the West Texas Museum Association? That's
what it's called. It's known as the West Texas
Museum Association. Is that connected with the
ranch headquarters? That's part of it. The ranch
headquarters is part of it. And the Tech Museum is
not? And the Tech Museum, that's all the same.
Uh-huh.
OK.